

Based on the various switching and sensor points used in my project, if any controlling is required, I have arranged to do the work directly using the IFTTT server without changing the code.
There is a data storage system for data based controlling through IFTTT server.






IFTTT ( If This Then That) is a private commercial company that runs online digital automation platforms which it offers as a service. Their platforms provide a visual interface for making cross-platform if statements to its users, which, as of 2020, numbered 18 million people.

IFTTT has partnerships with different providers of everyday services as well as using public APIs to integrate them with each other through its platform. They supply event notifications to IFTTT and execute commands that implement the responses.
ref:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IFTTT

Features
Overview

Screenshot of the IFTTT website
IFTTT employs the following concepts:

Services (formerly known as channels) are the basic building blocks of IFTTT.They mainly describe a series of data from a certain web service such as YouTube or eBay. Services can also describe actions controlled with certain APIs, like SMS. Sometimes, they can represent information in terms of weather or stocks.[23] Each service has a particular set of triggers and actions.
Triggers are the part of an applet represented as "This" in the "If This Then That" acronym. They are the items that trigger the action. For example, from an RSS feed, you can receive a notification based on a keyword or phrase.
Actions are the "That" part of an applet. They are the output that results from the input of the trigger.
Applets (formerly known as recipes) are the predicates made from triggers and actions. For example, a user would activate a trigger by liking a picture on Instagram and the applet would do an action, like sending the photo to their Dropbox account.
"Ingredients" are basic data available from a trigger—from the email trigger, for example; subject, body, attachment, received date, and sender’s address.



Usage examples
IFTTT can automate web application tasks, such as posting the same content on several social networks.
Marketing professionals can use IFTTT to track mentions of companies in RSS feeds.
IFTTT also is used in home automation, for instance switching on a light when detecting motion in a room (with associated compliant devices).





